And today I wanted to make a definitive
video where I go through from scratch
showing you guys how to put Spell and
Subase together to build a production
ready app. We're going to go over the
local dev experience which is admittedly
a little tricky on Subbase's side. I
think that their documentation does need
a little work in this area, but
otherwise the actual experience once you
get it working is beyond phenomenal and
is really something worth using. Now
before we get started, there are a few
prerequisites that you'll need to have
installed in order to get all this
working. So, first and foremost, you
need to have Docker Desktop installed as
well as the Superbase CLI. You can get
both of those. They're linked down
below. The Subbase documentation is
great on those. Um, obviously, you need
to have Node installed. And actually,
we're going to be using Bun for this. I
just prefer Bun over Node. It is much
faster locally. It works really well.
And I'm most I think I've migrated like
all my projects except for the giant T3
Turbo Monor repo I have to work with.
Everything else is on bun at this point.
So, I'm going to use that for the
package manager. Outside of all that
stuff, make sure you have your code
editor. This is not going to be like a
beginner tutorial on like, hey, here's
how you use Spell, here's how you use
Superbase, all that stuff. We're really
just going to be focusing on how to
actually use these together and get a
project set up so that you have a nice
little template to actually create your
app. So, with all that yapping out of
the way, let's get into the tutorial.
So, let's start this out by creating our
spelt kit project. I'm going to go ahead
and run npm spelt at latest. I'm going
to go ahead and just call this um Suba
base spelt kit tutorial. And then I'm
going to go ahead down in here. I'm
going to say I want a skeleton project.
I want a TypeScript syntax. Let's add
ESLint prettier. I don't want playwriter
of a test. And then of course we're
going to try the spelt vibe preview.
They say it's unstable. They say you
shouldn't use it in production. I don't
give a I'm using it in production.
It works great. So we're going to go
ahead and do that. We have our new
tutori We have our new project here. I'm
going to go ahead and cd into superbase
uh spellkit tutorial. I'm going to go
ahead and open this up in VS Code.
Go ahead make sure that this is nice and
zoomed in for the tutorial. I'm going to
go ahead and start by deleting this
npmrc. We don't need that cuz we're not
using npm. Now, we're going to start
with the superbase stuff. That's
probably the easiest place to start
here. So, remember you need to have the
Superbase CLI installed. So, I'm going
to go ahead and run superbase init. That
will go ahead and create the new thing.
We're going to say yes. Um, we're not
going to be using any of the edge
functions here, so we don't have to
worry about dino, but might as well. So,
now we have our new Superbase directory.
And the first thing I want to go ahead
and do is get this config.toml set up
correctly. Now, this is one of the
things that is by far the most confusing
about working with Superbase locally.
So, I want to try and dispel a lot of
the issues that I've personally had and
I've heard a lot of you guys have. So,
first and foremost, the API. We really
don't have to care about this. The DB
don't have to care about this. Real time
don't have to care about this. Studio
want to make sure we keep that. Uh in
bucket, none of this stuff really
matters except for off. O off. Setting
up off locally is kind of hard to figure
out, but once you do, it's really,
really simple. So, first and foremost,
we want to change our site URL over here
to localhost 5173.
Going to do the same thing down here to
actually I'm going to change this as
well. So, we're going to do localhost
and we're going to change this as well
to localhost 5173 cuz we're in spelkit,
not next.js. So, uh everything else here
is good. Everything else is fine. Um for
o.mmail, we can leave this be. I
personally really hate email
authentication. We're not even going to
be implementing it here. I don't want
your passwords and any site I personally
go to that uses email authentication, I
pretty much instantly bounce. So, I
don't want to waste our time with this.
We're going to close that up. But for
the O.external,
this is where it gets important. So,
we're going to leave o.external.apple
blank. We're going to go down here and
add in some new stuff. So, first and
foremost, we want to do
o.exteral.github.
And this is the easiest o provider to
set up and is just a really great uh
example for this. So, we're going to
first and foremost say enabled
equals true. We're going to go ahead and
say our client ID is equal to env. And
then we're going to go ahead and call
this GitHub client ID. Uh, next thing
we're going to go ahead and do is we're
going to set up our client secret. And
we're going to set this to be env uh
GitHub client secret, the autocomplete
new. So then the next thing we need to
do is set up our redirect uh URI. Now
for our redirect URI, this is where it
gets a little tricky. We actually want
to set this to um http127.0.0.1
col54321/v1/callback
whenever we redirect from GitHub. We
want to redirect actually back to the um
we want to redirect back to the
superbase local server and let it handle
the authentication from there. So this
is a tricky piece that is hard to find
that like this is what you actually need
to put here, but this is the key. We
want to put this here for our redirect
URI and then after that we're good. So,
now that we've done all this and we have
our uh GitHub set up, we need to fill in
these the client ID and the client
secret. So, I'm going to go into my
GitHub account here. So, I'm going to go
over to my profile. I'm going to go into
my where that it's settings. And then
we're going to go down here into my um
developer settings. We're going to go
into OOTH apps. And then I have I have a
ton in here. Um but I already have one
in here that I call Superbase Fellkit
Local. All you have to do is create a
new OOTH app. I'm just going to use this
one. Whenever you create this, you're
going to get a client ID here. And then
you're going to want to grab your client
secret. We'll generate a new one in a
second. But the really important piece
in here that you need to set is when
you're setting the homepage URL should
just be localhost 5173.
Give it whatever description you want.
Then the really really key piece here is
that your authorization callback URL
needs to be this. So it needs to be
this. Um I'll zoom in on this real quick
so you can see it. It's
127.0.0.154321/v. 0.1
col54321/offv1/callback.
This is really important. So make sure
you set your callback to be this. Set
your homepage URL to be this. Go ahead
and create your application. Then once
you've done that, you want to grab your
client ID here. So I'm going to first
grab this. We're going to go back to um
code. I'm going to go ahead in here and
I'm going to create a newv file. I'm
going to go ahead and say GitHub
uh client um ID is equal to that. Go
back over here. Uh yep. And then I'm
going to go back over here. I'm going to
generate a new client secret. So now
that we've copied our client secret, we
want to go ahead and say GitHub client
secret. Then we're just going to set
that equal to this guy. I'm going to uh
flush all these keys before this goes
live. So don't worry about me leaking
stuff. So we have our client ID, our
client secret, and now our
config.tottoml is all set up. So that is
one of the trickiest parts of this,
which is now all set up and ready for
you, and you can just go ahead and
actually run your O servers. But we're
not done setting up yet. The next thing
we need to do is the database. Now,
Superbase has a really good client side
SDK for interfacing with our databases.
You can use stuff like role security to
go ahead and secure your database and
interact with it directly from the
client, but I personally really don't
like that way of interfacing with my
database and working with it. I much
prefer to use a normal OM and use it
like a normal database. So, we're going
to be using Drizzle here. Drizzle is my
OM of choice. Um, I really like Prisma.
Prisma has a lot of good stuff to it,
but um the front loading cost of just
getting Prisma set up is such a pain in
the ass that I just I don't want to deal
with it. So, we're going to use Drizzle.
So, to get Drizzle set up, um I'm
actually going to use the show you guys
the documentation, kind of just show you
my thought process and how I go through
this cuz I don't have any of this
memorized. So, we're going to go in here
into uh Drizzle. We're going to go into
the documentation. We're going to go
into Postgress. We're going to go into
Superbase. We're going to start by
copying this first line. I'm going to go
back to my terminal. Going to go ahead
and paste that in here. And then I'm
going to go back over here. I'm going to
do bun add- drizzle kit. Add those guys
in here.
Then once we've done that, I'm actually
going to go ahead and set up my Drizzle
kit file here. So if you go in here to
the quick start. I think they have a
good example in here. Yeah, they do.
Awesome. Okay, so we're going to go
ahead and just copy paste this. So this
is from the quick start section on
Drizzle Kit. We're going to go back into
our project in the root directory here.
I'm going to do drizzle.config.ts.
Going to go ahead and paste this in
here. Then we need to go ahead and
change where our schema and where our
out directories are. So our drizzle is
going to live in source lib. And then
we're going to create a new directory in
here called db. Um, and then we're going
to create a new file called index.ts.
And we're going to also create another
file called in uh schema.ts. This is
typically how I set up my database. So
in my going back to our little
drizzle.config config here. I'm going to
say my schema is going to be in
slashsource
slashlib/db/s
schema.ts.
And then our out directory here, we're
going to get a little fancy with this
and we're actually going to generate
migrations directly for Superbase. Now
when we're working with Superbase
locally, one of the cool things we can
do is whenever we whenever you start up
your local Superbase server, if you have
a migrations directory in your Superbase
directory, it will automatically apply
those migrations to your local database.
So we don't have to do like DB push or
anything like that. We can manage our
database there and we can also use that
to deploy our database later on. And
that's we'll include that at the end of
the video. I think um showing how to
take this to prod is really important,
so I'm not going to leave that out. So
what I'm going to go ahead and do is I
just pasted a bunch of stuff in here. So
the first thing we change is we set our
out directory to be/subase/migrations.
That means we're going to generate all
of our migrations into here. Then the
next thing we want to go ahead and do is
we want to set our database credentials
to be localhost 554321
Postgress Postgress superbase. Now this
is really kind of optional. You really
don't need to have this in here, but I
like to include it for completeness
sake. So now that we've done all of
this, we actually have our full
Superbase instance ready, but we need to
create some data to actually we need to
create a schema to migrate in. So I'm
going to go back here into my source
directory into my lib into my DB and
we're going to start in the schema. So
the first thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to say export const profile table
equals um
uh pg table. I'm going to call this
profile. I'm going to go ahead in here
and we're just going to set some basic
fields for this little example app.
We're going to have a profile for the
user. We're going to update some fields
on there using form actions to show you
guys how those work. And um really the
point of this is in a lot of real apps,
I typically find myself having a
separate table within my normal database
that's like a profile instance because I
want to store stuff on there. I want to
store user settings. I want to store
have like a link to all the other
tables. I really like having this. So
I'm going to go ahead and say id is
equal to um uyu ID. We're going to
import that from Postgress core. Just
going to call this ID and we're going to
say this is a primary key. We're not
going to have it auto set because we
want to set that ourselves. This ID is
actually going to uh reference the UYU
ID in the O table, but we can't manually
set that, but that's how we'll actually
do it. So then the next thing I'm going
to do going to do first name is equal to
um text. Nope, not that text. We're
going to do text from PG core. just
gonna say first name. Then we're going
to do not null because I don't like null
values if I can avoid them. Also going
to have last name. So gonna have email.
Um and yeah, that that's good enough for
this example. That's really all we need
to have. So we have this profile table
here and go back to this index.ts.
We're going to go back over here to the
Drizzle documentation. I'm going to jump
back up here to the docs. We're going to
go back to Postgress, back to Superbase,
and we're going to jump down here to
this little index.ts here. I'm just
going to copy everything out of this.
I'm going to paste it in here. Um,
that's not correct. That's not correct.
Um, that's not correct. We're going to
actually export this database. And
within our Drizzle, we also want to
import
star as schema from dot /s schema. So,
this will give us nice types for the
Drizzle query client, which is a really
nice thing that they added recently.
Pass in our schema here. And the last
thing we need to do is get our
connection string. So I'm going to go
ahead and just say this is going to be
equal to database um URL. And we will
import this after we've actually run our
dev server. Once we've run that, this
will be generated as a static type in
speltkit. And we can import that. We
don't have it yet, so we're just going
to wait. So with that now out of the
way, let's go ahead back into our
package.json and let's create some
helper functions in here. I like having
these. So the first one we're going to
create is going to be dbg generate. Uh
so we're going to go ahead and say
drizzle kit generate. So we're going to
paste that in here. And then that's
really the only one we need. So now that
we have this command, I'm going to go
ahead back over to my terminal. I'm
going to do bun run dbg generate. Then
this will take a second and it will
create this new migration. So going back
into our project, if we go into
superbase, we go into migrations, we can
see we have our first migration here.
It's super basic. All we're doing is
just creating our profile. And we
actually need to add something to this.
We're going to do alter table um profile
enable row level
security. So what this will do is this
will block off public access from the
public HTTP API that Superbase exposes.
Again, I don't like I don't like the
client side SDK for that stuff. I know
some people do. It's just not for me. So
we're going to go ahead alter the table,
enable the rowle security, block that
off, and we should be good. So, I'm
going to go ahead close this up. And I
think with that, we are basically ready
to start our server. Okay. So, we're
going to run su start and end up
actually getting an error here. It's um
Oh, I forgot for GitHub. It's not client
secret. It's actually secret. So, we're
going to go ahead in here and we're
going to go back to our config.toml.
We're going to go back down here to
external GitHub and we're actually going
to change this to be secret is equal to
env.client secret. There we go. Okay.
So, now if we go back in here and we do
superbase start. Okay, there we go.
Okay. Yeah, I think my Docker was just
up. Finally, when I clear all
this out and I do superbase start, this
will go ahead and actually spin up our
database. It will use those migrations,
apply apply them locally, apply all of
the O stuff locally, and we should have
a nice environment prepped and ready.
So, give this a moment here. Let it set
up our schema. Let it go through and do
everything. Okay, awesome. So, with that
out of the way, we now have our local
Subbase instance working. If I go ahead
in here to our studio URL, pop this up,
we go into our table editor, you'll see
we've got our nice profile here. We have
it's protected by RLS. We have all our
stuff working in here and we're ready to
actually make the app. So, let's go
ahead back down here. Let's go ahead and
copy paste this database URL. I'm going
to copy this boy here. I'm going to go
back into my project. I'm going to go
into myv. I'm going to say database URL
is equal to this guy. And now finally,
let's go ahead in here and let's do bun
I let's do bun rundev.
So now I'm going to go back in here. I'm
going to go into my database. I'm going
to go in here. I'm going to now import
this from static private. And then if we
go to 5173, we'll get welcome to
spellkit. And I'm going to go back over
here
and close this. I'm going to go back
into our project here. I'm going to go
into roots. And then I'm going to go
ahead and create a page.server.
server.ts.
We go ahead and say export const load
equals async. So this is our serverside
load function. Here we go ahead and say
const um profiles equals await db where
I import from that lib dbquery.profile
table.find many. Then we're just going
to go ahead and return the profiles.
We're going to go onto our page.spelt.
We're going to go ahead and add a script
tag up here. I'm going to set my lang
equal to ts. And finally, I'm going to
say const data equals dollar props to
grab our data from the page.s server.
We're going to do inspect
um data.profiles.
We're going to go back into our
terminal. Going to open this back up and
inspect element. And we should see no
profiles. Beautiful. It worked exactly
right. So, we are all good. Our database
is working and connected. So now let's
get Subabase set up and running for our
Spellelkit app. So this is where it gets
a lot easier and where the documentation
is helpful, but I still want to go
through this in the video and make sure
that you guys have a complete video here
to actually show you how this works. So
I'm going to go back here and I'm just
going to go ahead and look up um
Superbase SSR package setup. Just going
to look that up. We're going to create a
Superbase client for SSR. I'm going to
go into the SpeltKit guide. I'm really
glad that they have this and we're just
going to follow it. So, I'm going to
start up here with my SubbaseJS and
Subbase SSR. We're going to copy this
right here. Going to stop my dev server.
Do bun add these two homies. Then we're
going to go back over here to our env. I
do env.local.
I don't know why I just don't I don't
who cares. Um, so we're going to do
these. Going to copy this guy here
and go ahead into our enenv. Going to go
ahead and paste those two in here. Now
for our Subbase URL, this we can go
ahead back into our terminal. And if we
do Subbase status, we'll get all of this
information. So I'm going to start here
by copying this API URL. We're going to
paste that in here. I'm going to clear
this out here. And for our add an add-on
key, I'm going to go ahead and set that
equal to this guy right here. So we're
going to copy him and I'm going to paste
him in here. Now that we've done that,
we're going to close up this.env. I'm
going to go ahead and do bun rundev so
that we get the type safety on our env
variables. Then we're just going to keep
following it. So the first thing I'm
going to go do is go down here. I'm
going to go into and we're going to make
our hooks.ts.
So I'm going to start over here. I'm
going to copy just copy paste everything
from here. I'm going to go into my uh
source directory here. I'm going to
create hooks.server.ts.
Go ahead and paste that in here. and
we're going to get a bunch of type
errors because we don't have our types
in our app.d.ts. But most of this is
actually pretty much correct. So, just
going to leave that how it is. We're
going to go back in here and we're going
to go into our type defs. I'm going to
copy everything here. I'm going to go
into my app.d.ts.
I'm going to actually add to this. So,
I'm going to paste it up here. Um, oh
wait, now they do it right. So, I'm
going to go ahead and just delete
everything here. And I'm just going to
paste in everything from there. So,
we'll get our session type, our client
type, and our user type in uh properly
type our locals. And our server should
now be working correctly. Beautiful. It
is. So, perfect. This is working just
fine. And now we can go back over here.
So, now we're going to go ahead and
create our browser client within our
layout.ts. So, I'm going to go in here.
I'm just going to copy everything from
this again. We're going to go into our
roots. We're going to add a plus
layout.ts, which means that this can run
both client side and server side, but
really just think of it as client side.
So, we're going to go ahead and paste
this in here. Uh, we have this nice is
browser check to ensure we're in the
right environment. And if we are, we go
ahead and create our little browser
client in here. Everything is good.
We're going to go back over here and
also grab this layout.server to add our
session to our layout. So, I'm going to
go ahead and copy paste everything from
here. So, we're going to go back in here
and I'm going to do plus
layout.server.ts.
Go ahead and paste that in here. And now
that'll get rid of our type error in
here because we know that we have our
data session. And now we should have all
the context we need to actually use in
our app, I believe. Um, oh yeah, one
other thing we can add in here, which
I'll go ahead and add this cuz it's good
practice, is we want to have a little
listener in here, which whenever we
change our off state, we go ahead and
invalidate our authentication and log
the user out. So I'm going to go ahead
in here. I'm going to copy paste all of
this. We're going to go ahead and add a
plus layout.spelt.
We're going to paste all this in here.
And I'm actually going to change a
couple things. So, first and foremost,
I'm going to add in this lang equals ts.
Now, we're going to do this in runes
mode. I don't want to leave you guys in
the old spelt for thing. We're going to
do this in runes mode because that's the
that's the new stuff. So, I'm going to
go ahead and say um const data equals um
dollar props.
We're going to delete this. Um, we are
going to go ahead and uh delete this and
we are going to go ahead and switch this
on mount into an effect. So, this will
now be an effect rune. We're going to
delete this. Yeah, we had a little
override here where we had data declared
twice. So, I'm just going to rename this
to props data. I'm going to go ahead and
say props data equals all this stuff.
Then, we're going to say props data
session. And now, I believe we should be
good. And the last thing we need to
change in here is spelt 5 does things a
little bit differently. So I'm actually
going to in my props, I'm also going to
add in a new thing here called children.
So children is the new replacement for
slots. So I'm going to go down here.
We're replace this and we're going to
say at render. Whoops, I can't spell.
And children. There we go. So now this
will render out all of our child pages.
We could add in a div up here. um put
something here and then be like H2 be
like hello from uh layout or something
just to show you how this works. So this
is just the normal slot just a little
bit different a little bit more explicit
and it's probably better. Um so now when
we go to our localhost 5173 hello from
layout will work we get our welcome to
speltkid page and everything is good. So
now that we've done that let's go ahead
and implement our signin with GitHub.
So, the first thing we're going to go
ahead and do here is I'm going to go
into our uh the flows here on the docs.
We're going to go down to GitHub, and
we're going to copy paste some more
code. So, and we're going to run this
with the uh server side flow. So, I'm
going to go in here to the uh second
method here, click on server, and we're
going to go ahead and copy paste all of
this. So, I'm going to copy paste this.
We're going to go back over to our
project here. We're going to go into
roots. We're going to add a new folder
called off. We're going to go ahead and
add a new uh file a folder in here
called login. I'm going to go ahead and
add in a plus page.server.ts.
We're going to go ahead and say export
const actions is equal to this. We're
going to say our default action is going
to be async. We're going to go ahead and
grab our locals. We're going to go ahead
and do this. I'm going to paste in
everything I had there. We're going to
replace this superbase with locals.sup.
I'm going to go ahead and we're not
going to handle errors for this. It's
fine. U I'm going to replace this
provider option with GitHub. I'm going
to go ahead and change this redirect URL
down here to http
localhost
uh 5173.
We're just going to do the homepage
here. Then we're finally going to go
down here and we're going to say uh
redirect add this import from speltkit.
Uh we need to update this to go ahead
and have a 307 in here. And then we can
go ahead and finally just do return
uh success is false because if we get to
this point it did not work. But at that
point we should be good. So now what
this will do is this will initi initiate
our server side offflow. We can go
through and do all that stuff. And
before we go ahead and do the client
side code, we first need to go ahead and
add the callback cuz remember whenever
you do OOTH. We're not going to go deep
into how this all really works, but
really what you're doing is you're going
to GitHub land. You uh you create your
OOTH flow, you get your token, you go to
GitHub's site, and when you log in on
GitHub's site, they send you back with a
token. And that token basically
validates like, hey, they signed in
correctly. So, we're going to go back
over here. I'm going to go down here to
this O call back. So, I'm just going to
copy paste everything right here. We're
going to go into our um o/callback
here. We're going to go ahead and add
plus server.ts.
Just going to paste everything in here.
And I think that should handle it. That
should get what we need. Oh, wait. I
forgot. We can also grab URL. So, yeah,
that'll give us everything we need in
here. Okay. So, now that we have this,
I'm actually going to make one more
change to our login here. I'm going to
go back over here and instead of just
doing this, we're actually just going to
go ahead and say um we want to do here
is we want to go up here. We're going to
add in a URL here because we have access
to the URL context. We're going to say
URL.host. We want to send you back to
Oh, no, sorry, not host.
So, we're going to go ahead and just do
the origin right here. Send them back to
the homepage basically. And with all of
that, we should be good to make our
client side code. Now, I want to make
this look a little bit nicer so that it
looks a little bit like a real app. So,
I'm going to go ahead and add in
Tailwind in Shad Cen for spelt. So, I'm
going to go ahead into the documentation
for Shad Cenelt. It's my favorite uh UI
library for spelt kit. I'm going to go
ahead in here. I'm going to copy paste
the uh second command here. We're going
to go ahead and select bun because
that's the package manager we're using.
Stop the server. Paste this in here. Let
it run through and initialize our new
Tailwind. Um preconditions failed. Uh,
yes, we do wish to continue. Uh, yes.
Uh, no, we don't need topography. Um,
it'll install everything. Awesome. Uh,
we're going to go ahead and run bun I
going to go back down here. Uh, we don't
need to change our path aliases. Um, now
we want to go ahead and initialize shad
censel. So, I'm going to go ahead right
here. I'm going to add in bun. I'm going
to go ahead and paste this in here.
I am using TypeScript. We'll just do
default style. I prefer neutral. Uh,
that'll work. That'll work. That'll
work. That'll work. And now we have our
shaden initialized. Um, I'm going to go
back down in here. And now I'm going to
go back to this site and want to add a
couple components. So, the first one
we're going to go ahead and add is
button. This one's really useful. Just
going to go down here, say,
paste that in here. Um, we'll say yes.
I'm going to go back over here. I'm
going to do the next one I want to do is
going to be label. So I'm going to go to
label here. I'm going to go ahead and uh
copy this. Paste you in here. Um yes, we
want to install. Going to go ahead and
do input.
Go ahead and grab you. We're going to go
ahead and paste this in here. Go ahead
and say yes. Then finally, we're going
to go ahead and do card. Uh the this
should be enough to make a semi a
semicompetent UI for this little
example. So we're going to go ahead and
add in this card. Yes, we want to
install. Now with all of that done,
we're going to go ahead and do bun
rundev once more. I'm going to go back
to our website. It should look
Oh yeah. So when you restart your
server, I think it like in the
layout.spelt, it auto added in the slot.
So we need to go ahead and close you up.
We're going to go back to our
layout.spelt.
Go all the way down here. and it
automatically added in this slot. We
don't want that. We're just going to
delete him there. Um, make sure yep, it
added our app.css.
We open this back up. Yep, it'll look
completely unstyled, but that's cuz
we're now in Tailwind and it's all
working. So, I'm going to go back here.
I'm going to go into our page.spelt. I'm
going to go ahead and delete these here.
We're going to import button here. So,
I'm going to import this button from
component/button.
We are going to say her ref equals a/lo.
We're going to say log to the site. Um,
we're going to go back over to our
homepage here. Give it a moment to load.
We're going to go ahead and log in to
the site. Oh, so there's no page
attached. So when you click it, it won't
do anything. When we go back over here
now and we go to off and we go to login
and we go to plus page.sfelt, felt.
We're going to go ahead in here and
we're going to Let's make this look kind
of nice. So, I'm going to go ahead and
add in a new card. I'm going to import
this from component/card.
Going to add in card header.
Uh, grab that also from card. Um, we're
going to go ahead and say log to the
site. Um, we're going to go ahead down
here into card content. And then we're
just going to go ahead and add in a
button here. Um, we'll also wrap this in
a form. We'll change that in a moment
here. So, we're going to delete this
down here. Paste that.
Go ahead within this button. We're going
to want to also import this here. We're
going to want to say loss signin with
GitHub. We're going to want to go ahead
and set the type of this button to be
submit because we want to submit the
form because we're firing a form action
here. Or actually, we don't even need to
have action here. So, we just need to do
method equals um post.
And now with all of that nonsense
hopefully done, um I'm going to go ahead
back into here. I'm going to go back
over to our site. I'm going to go to
login to site. Okay. So, you'll notice
actually here, I didn't even notice
this. They changed this on the
documentation. So, if you go to the
login to site and you go to a/lo, it
just nothing will work. And that's
actually because there's an offguard on
this now. So, we go back into our
hooks.ts. We'll go ahead and just um
going to close up this Superbase
instance. And if you look down here, we
have our offguard here. So in here,
basically what we're doing is we're just
checking if they're logged in. And then
if like basically having a bunch of
private directories here and I I just
don't want any of this. I don't
typically find myself doing these guard
functions that much. It um you can leave
this in if you want to and set it up,
but I'm actually just going to go ahead
and delete this. We're just going to go
ahead and remove the offguard back here.
I'll leave the sequence in. So if you
want to add in more things in sequence,
you can. But otherwise, we don't really
need that. So I'm going to delete this
redirect. Now, if we go back over here
and I go to login to site.
Oh, it's probably just not rebuilding.
So actually, what we need to do here is
probably just go in here and just delete
our spellkit file cuz sometimes this
happens in spel. It's this is one of the
most annoying things about the framework
is every once in a while it just won't
properly rebuild. So we're actually
going to do bun eye again. Uh, let it
all reinstall and then we're going to do
bun rundev. We're going to open up our
localhost instance here. And this really
should work now, right? What the
Okay, cool. There we go. Okay, so that
that fixed it. So yeah, so that was that
was the problem. So basically what we
were doing is since we just pro passing
all of the props data into this effect,
it was constantly rerunning the effect.
So what we want to actually do in here
is we just want to dstructure these.
Grab subase and session from props data.
pass these guys right in here uh to this
and then that should fix it. So that was
a long way of saying like make sure that
you change those two things so that you
can properly get into your uh route. So
now we can finally go over to log into
the site. We will have this pretty ugly
card. I haven't really done any styling
to it. Now you try this right now.
You'll actually notice we made one more
mistake here. So when you hit sign in
with GitHub, it'll give you the wrong
thing here. What we actually want to do
here is we want to redirect to be
URL.org origin plus/off/callback.
We want it to go here. Um, we want to go
ahead and do this here. Sign in with
OOTH. All that stuff should be good.
Okay. Yeah. Awesome. Finally. So, now we
go here. We log in with
So, one thing that you're going to
notice actually is I kind of screwed
this up. When I initially did this
earlier, I was just thinking, "Oh, yeah,
we'll just do this within the form
actions and stuff." But that kind of
gets screwy with all the different HTTP
verbs that get thrown in there. So, I'm
gonna make this a lot easier and just
make a little get request here that will
run the call that will run the
authentication flow. So, we're going to
go in here to the login directory. We're
going to go ahead and add in a GitHub
folder here. We're going to go ahead and
add in a uh server.ts.
We're going to go ahead and say export
const get. And then this is going to be
equal to an async file to an async
function. We're going to go ahead and
say locals.
And from locals, we're going to grab
superbase out of here. We're also going
to grab the URL.
Then we're going to go ahead down here.
We're going to say const uh data
equals await superbase.
Signin with ooth. We're going to say our
provider is GitHub. And we're going to
say in our options, we're going to say
redirect to. And then we're going to do
URL. And then a/callback. And then we're
going to go ahead and say if data URL
redirect
to the data URL. Um, we don't need all
of that that it just popped up there.
Delete this. Otherwise, we want to go
ahead and just do a redirect to um 307.
And then we will do slash offer.
We haven't created that and we'll just
hope that we don't have any off errors.
But this is where you would go through
and implement all that stuff. So now
that I've finally done all that stuff,
we're going to go back over to our
project here. So we're going to go back
in here. We're going to go to this page.
Now we need to change this client side.
So we're going to go to our page.selt.
I'm going to delete this form. I'm going
to change this button to instead be a
little um to have a href. We're going to
set this to a slash uh login/github.
We're going to go ahead into our
page.server. We're going to delete uh
actually we can just delete this. No,
we'll leave this in here. Uh but we'll
just delete all of this flat out. Um
we're just going to do this. Now, when
we go back in here, we go to sign in
with GitHub. It'll go through and it
will log me in. I've already logged in
with GitHub on this computer, so it
didn't show GitHub, but if you're not,
it will take you there and you can do
this. So now if we go back into our um
homepage here and I'm just going to go
ahead and um do inspect. We're actually
going to do data dot user. We're going
to inspect the user object here. We're
going to inspect element. Go in here.
You can see we have an object right here
that says we have an authenticated user.
Just like that, we now have
authentication working. So, the last
thing we're going to go ahead and do
here, which should be pretty quick, I
really hope, is going to be um just
implementing some basic CRUD logic. Uh
getting this to look a little bit nicer,
adding in a couple O checks, and then
we'll go ahead and deploy it. So, I'm
going to go back over here. I'm going to
go into my um where is it? Uh where do
we want to start this? Let's let's just
do it on the homepage. So, we're going
to add in a uh big old if in here. So,
we're going to go ahead and do a hashtag
if data do user.
Um, so the user object is optional here,
right? I believe data user. Oh, come on.
Uh, we're going to do else. We're going
to close our if right here. And we're
going to say div, you are logged in.
Um, whoops. I have these flips. I'm just
going to flip these real quick. And now,
if we go back over here, it's going to
say you are logged in. So, we have this
right here. So, now that we are logged
in, we're going to go ahead and actually
add in some logic here. So, let's go
ahead and create a new card. Let's go
ahead and we need to import this from
our card component. We're going to say
uh card content. It's going to be in
here. We're going to go ahead and say um
or we'll add card header. We're going to
go ahead and say um
manage your profile. And the three
fields we're going to have in here,
we're going to add in a div. We're going
to add in a label here. So, we're going
to import that from our label here.
We're going to say um email. And then
we're going to add in an input here. Um
we'll just have this just be an input
for right now. That's fine. Um we're
going to just copy paste this and paste
this. And we're going to do a first
name.
We're going to do last name here.
And with all of that, we're going to go
ahead and add in one more div down down
here. We're going to add in a button.
We're going to say uh update. We're
going to say type equals submit.
And we are going to go ahead and
actually wrap all of this in here in a
form. So, we're going to go ahead and do
this. We're going to go all the way down
here. going to delete this guy down
here. And now we have what we need. So
this is all good. But the next thing I
want to do is I want to go ahead and
kind of change a couple things about the
authentication to get it a little bit
more production ready. So we're going to
go ahead in here. We're going to go into
our lib directory and let's go ahead and
add in a new utility function. So I'm
going to go ahead and do make a new o
folder in here. I'm going to go ahead
and call this index.ts.
And now I'm going to go ahead and say
export const get or create user profile
where this is going to be async. This is
going to take in um a our locals object.
We want to say app.locals.
And we're just going to do this. And
then the first thing we're going to go
ahead and do is we're going to say um if
not locals do user. We're just going to
go ahead and return null. The next thing
we want to go ahead and do is we want to
say um const perp profile
equals await uh db dot query.profile
table.find first and we're going to say
where going to do eq
uh profile table
ID is equal to locals do user uh do ID.
So now we're going to say if current
profile, we just want to return the
profile and otherwise we want to create
a profile. So we're going to just go
ahead and tab this in. Um now we'll do
const new profile equals await db.insert
into the profile table or say our values
are just going to be an object. Our ID
will be locals do user ID. And then for
now we're just going to leave our first
name blank. We're going to leave our
last name blank. But for our email we
want to use locals do user.e. email. And
now
uh this is potentially undefined. So
we'll also give that an option to just
be empty. So now that we've done all of
this stuff, we're just going to go ahead
and return the new user profile. We'll
make this easier. And we'll just go
ahead and just do um this.
And then finally, we'll go ahead and
just do um const
uh new profile equals await find first.
Same query as above. And then we'll just
return new profile. And we know that
this has to not be undefined. So we will
force this to be real.
Or I guess um
if
not new profile, there was a new error
in creating that. So we want to actually
make this a spellkit error. So we're
going to delete all of this in here. So
we're going to say error. And then we're
going to go ahead and just say um error
is going to be a 500. could not create
the profile and then otherwise we will
just return the profile that will be
defined. So then here this should return
a promise of either a profile object or
null. And this is super super helpful
for basically working as a guard
function. So I'm going to go back over
here into my uh roots here. So instead
of grabbing profiles, we're actually
going to say const user prof uh profile
equals await get or create user profile.
And we need to grab our locals here.
We're going to pass our locals into
here. And then we're just going to
return user profile. Going to delete
this. And then now within our page.selt,
I'm actually going to change this to be
if data user profile. This is more this
is a much more useful thing to work with
here. So I'm going to go ahead and
delete this. Um everything should be
good here. So if we have a profile,
we're going to fill this in. So, what
you're actually going to notice in here
when we make that change is actually
that the profile is now disappearing.
So, we now just have log into site and
the profile is going to be null for some
reason. So, what we want to go ahead and
do here is we want to go into our um
want to go actually back into our get or
create profile. We're going to go in
here and we actually need to change a
little bit about how this works. So, one
of the things that's a little
interesting about how we have this set
up is we have this function up here
called get save session. So this get
save session is how we can get out our
user and how we can get out our session.
So in here we don't actually have our
user set to anything and we don't
actually have our session set to
anything because we haven't called get
save session yet. So what we need to
actually do in here is I'm going to go
ahead up here and I'm going to say const
session. Uh actually we just need to get
user. So we're going to say const user
equals await uh locals.safe get session.
So now down here we're going to replace
this locals user. We're going to replace
all of these. We're going to replace
this guy. Going to replace this guy,
this guy, this guy. Replace all of these
in here with that. And then with those
fixes in place, now we go back here. We
will have our profile incorrectly. You
will see my profile in here. Everything
is well and good. So, now that all of
these random little edge cases have been
figured out, and I know that this is a
lot. It's kind of chaos getting this set
up. I will have this entire finished
project linked down below. It'll be
eventually this will probably be a
template. We definitely need to do that.
That's something that's been on my list
forever and I think we're finally making
steps towards getting that done. So,
this will exist at some point. So, we're
going to go ahead down here. I'm going
to go into my page.spel here and let's
go ahead and actually make this work.
Now, there are a lot of different ways
we could do this, but I want to show off
some uh a lot of the progressive
enhancement stuff to give you guys some
more context on how to do that. This is
not the most efficient way to actually
implement this, but again, I just we're
going to make it a little weird just for
the sake of showing off some concepts.
So, first and foremost, we need to set
up our state variables. I'm going to say
let first name equals dollar state empty
string let last name. And we're going to
say let email equals state. Now, I'm
going to go down here into my input. I'm
going to say bind value equals email.
going to do the same thing in here.
We're going to do bind value equals
first name. And we are going to do bind
value equals last name. Finally, so now
that we've done that, we can go ahead
and work with our state variables, but
we want to populate these based on our
data. So, I'm going to go down here and
I'm going to do dollar um effect. Let's
just populate these on mount basically.
I know um I use effect more than I
probably should, but whatever it, you
know, it works. Um, I'm going to go
ahead and also dstructure up here. I'm
going to do const um user profile equals
uh data. Just grab this out here. Uh
we're going to go down here and also
change this to just be user profile.
Going to say if user profile and go
ahead and do first name uh equals
profile name. Set all these. Copilot
knows what to do. And now if we go back
into our page here, you'll see my email
is populated with my real email. and
first name and last name are empty
because we don't have anything there. So
now now let's go ahead and make the
backend server side function to actually
work with this. So I'm going to go into
my page.server.ts. We're going to go
ahead and do export const actions equals
uh default async. We're going to need to
grab in our request object and we're
need to go ahead and grab our locals
object. I believe yes. Go ahead and do
this. First and foremost, we want to go
ahead and say const um user profile
equals a way to get or create user
profile. We'll pass in locals here. Uh
if not user profile, we're just going to
throw an error here. We're going to do a
spellkit error. We're going to say uh
401 and then you need to be logged in.
Now, I'm going to use a package here
that I really like that makes uh form
data a lot easier to work with. We're
going to go and do zod form data. This
is a really useful package which I found
uh very lightweight, very simple, which
we can go ahead in here and use this to
kind of create a schema and then quickly
safe parse our form data. Uh probably
should make a utility function out of
this eventually, but for now this will
work. We're going to go back into our
terminal. We're going to do bun add zod
form data and zod. We're going to go
ahead and just uh do bun rundev once
again. I'm going to go back in here and
I'm going to say um font schema equals
ZFD
D. Uh it doesn't seem Oh, wait. Does it
get it? Yep. Uh dot form data first
name, which is going to be a string, a
last name, and actually these aren't
strings. These are actually going to be
text fields because instead of mapping
to normal TypeScript types, it's going
to map to form types. So, we're going to
grab these text objects and then we're
going to say const um data, error. We're
going to say equals uh schema.parse
and we're going to pass in uh request
form data. So, we're going to do
schema.save parse. We'll pull out our um
data from here.
This data will be either here or not
defined. We're going to go ahead and do
if uh not data and go ahead and throw
another error in here. We're going to
say 400 invalid form data. Then finally,
we will now properly have our form data.
And we can go ahead and do await
db.update
uh db grab you.date. And we're going to
update the uh profile table. We're going
to go ahead and set the um first name,
last name, and the email. Beautiful. And
then we're going to do where EQ profile
table ID is equal to the user profile
dot id. And now with all of that out of
the way, we can just return success is
equal to true. And then now we need to
go ahead and hook this up client side.
So I'm going to go back down here to my
client. And like I said, we're doing
this kind of weird. We don't need to do
all this progressive enhancement. We can
just submit the form and have it work.
But I want to get a little fancy here.
So, I'm going to go down here into my
form action. We're going to add in a
method equals post. We're going to
delete this action right here. We're
going to go ahead and do a use enhance
directive here. Now, we're going to get
a little fancy with this. So, we're
going to say we're going to grab form
data out of this. We're going to go
ahead and do this. So, the first thing
we're going to go ahead and do is we're
going to set all of our state variables
in our form data. Because if you look
right here, we don't have any any names
on these inputs. So, they won't be
properly bound here. And again, you can
just give this like a name of what you
want back there and have that work. But
again, I'm just showing you the
progressive enhancement. So, we're going
to do form data set first name, last
name, email. Then, we're going to go
ahead down here. We're going to do
return. And we return a callback
function here, which will happen. All of
this up here happens before submit. All
this down here happens after submit. So,
I'm going to go ahead and say um result.
Then I'm going to say if result do
success
dot uh type equals success,
we're going to go ahead down here and
say um
uh we're going to want to invalidate our
homepage and we're going to want to add
an alert um updated.
And then otherwise
um else we want to go ahead and do alert
error. So now with all of that nonsense
out of the way, I think we should be
able to update our profile. I don't know
why that got imported here. Let's go
back to our site here. I'm going to go
ahead and refresh everything here. Go
ahead and fill in my name. Go ahead and
hit update. It'll say updated. If I
refresh the page, this will all be
correct. And if I go back into my
terminal here, we do subbase status. We
go into my um studio URL. I open this
up. I open up my table editor. I open up
my profile. You can see we are now we
have a functional app. We can update
this as much as we want. Can go back in
here. Um we'll do uh bun rundev.
Go ahead and refresh this here. Um we're
going to go ahead and change this to my
full name.
uh update this, go back to this guy
here, and it will be properly updated.
So now we have the makings of a full app
here. You can imagine how you could
expand this to build something real. Um
I think before we deploy, I want to go
ahead and create a sign out button cuz I
think that's just a good thing for you
guys to see. I'm going to go ahead down
here and add in a new button. It's going
to be ref=/off
log out. We're just going to say log
out. We're going to go ahead in here to
our O directory. We're going to add a
log out right here. Going to add a plus
server.ts.
Do export const get. We're going to do
this is going to be async. We're going
to go ahead and do this. Um, we also
want to grab our locals and specifically
Subabase.
And we just wanted to go ahead and do
await subbase.
out. Uh, and then we want to redirect
307 to the homepage. And just like that,
we can go ahead and hit log out. We'll
come back to our homepage. It'll say
we're not logged in. Go ahead, log into
the site. Sign in with GitHub. And now,
just like that, we now have a functional
app. So, I know this has been a very
long and kind of crazy tutorial, but
let's get this in production and make it
complete. I'm going to go into um GitHub
here.
Uh, I'm going to go to my profile. I'm
going to go ahead to my repos. I'm going
to create a new repo. I'm going to call
this um Superbase spelt kit 2024
tutorial. Um, this is this is this will
be the public one that will be available
at the end of this. So um a basic demo
showing of spelt kit plus superbase
and in 2024.
This will probably change at some point
but for now this is fine. So I'm going
to leave all this blank because I like
an empty repo. Go ahead create the
repository. We're going to go ahead down
here. The only command I need is this
one. So I'm going to copy this right
here. Going to go ahead in here and I'm
going to do get init. We go ahead and do
get add- a get commit-m
created project. We go ahead and paste
that in here.
We're going to go ahead and say I
already did everything right. Yep. And
we're going to go ahead and say get
push.
Oh, yep. And we need to go ahead and
actually do setup stream origin main.
Now, if we go ahead and do this and
refresh back here, zoom out to normal,
we have our full little project. So this
is all done and ready here. Now let's go
ahead and deploy this. We're going to
start the deployment process in
Superbase because that's an easier place
to do it. So we're going to go to
Subbase. I'm going to go to my
dashboard. I have a bunch of stuff in
here. Um you can do this for free
completely. I have to do it because I
have to pay here because I have so many
different projects using this for
insider viz for weights AI for a bunch
of different stuff. So, I'm going to go
ahead and create a new project in um the
we'll do it in this org. Um and do a
micro instance. We will say um superbase
spelt kit tutorial. We're going to go
ahead and generate a password here. Uh
this instance will be deleted by the
time you see it. So, it doesn't matter
here. Going to do US East because I'm on
the East Coast. Copy this password over
here. I'm going to in my env I like to
just store it in here just to know and
just say prod pass equals this because I
want to keep record of that. Go ahead
and create my new project.
And once we've created this, we can go
ahead and get ready to start doing the
next thing. So I'm going to go up here
to the URL and I want to grab this piece
right here. It'll look like a bunch of
random letters and numbers. So I'm going
to grab this right here. I'm going to go
back into my terminal. I'm going to do
superbase
base link d- project ref and that's then
I'm going to paste in that. Okay,
awesome. So, finally once you get the
green light here, we're going to go back
into our terminal. We're going to
actually fire this command. Uh I'm going
to paste in my database password. Grab
that back from here. Paste that in
there. And now what we can do is we can
do suase db push. Going to go ahead and
push. I'm going to say yes. And now that
we've done this, I'm going to go back
over to my table editor. And we have our
profile table in production. So, let's
go ahead back to our git repo here. So,
I'm going to go back to the um GitHub.
We have this guy right here. And now,
we're going to go ahead and deploy this
web app. You can deploy this wherever
you want. I'm going to do it on Versel
because that's the easiest place to do
it. So, we're going to go to Verscell.
I'm going to go to my just my profile
here. I'm going to go ahead and create a
new project. I'm going to import this
from the spellkit 2024 tutorial. We're
going to go ahead and the framework
preset should be should be spelt kit I
believe. Um root directories here. The
output directory uh this is all correct.
Big ones here are going to be the
environment variables. So if you
remember over here we have a couple
different things. We have our um
database URL, public superbase URL,
superbase and key and these two. We
don't actually need to include these two
in our super in our versell project. We
just need these. So, the first one I'm
going to get is going to be the database
uh URL. We're going to go back into the
project. We're going to go down into
project settings. We're going to go into
database. I'm going to copy this URI
right here. Going to jump back over
here. Paste it in. And then we need to
change the your password field right
here. We need to change this to be the
prodass. So, we're going to paste
prodass in here. We're going to add that
in. Next thing we're going to go ahead
and grab is going to be our API info.
So, my project URL is going to be this.
So, I'm going to say um what did I call
it? It's uh public superbase
URL. It's going to be this.
And then we're going to say our an
add-on key. We're just going to copy
paste that in here. Jump back here. Copy
this add an add-on key into our project.
Add that in. And that's everything we
need. So, we should be able to go in
here now and just hit deploy.
Um, oh god, why is it
uh
it does this every once in a while. I've
se I've seen this problem before. Yeah,
every once in a while Versell does that.
I don't really know why they do that,
but they do do that sometimes. Um, so
we're just going to go ahead into the
package.json. I'm going to set this to
be point2. We're going to go ahead and
do get add- a get commit- mvv. And then
we're just going to push this up. And
then if you get this error, this is
usually how you fix it. We're going to
refresh it here. And we're going to
check on our deployments. And we'll get
our first production deployment. And
again, I don't know why it does that
sometimes. Sometimes you'll just get
that weird get error. It should have
fired initially, but if it didn't, just
do this. So we'll give it a second here.
It needs to go ahead and run a bunch of
stuff. It'll run bun install, run all of
our Vit build stuff, basic felt kit
stuff here. And in a moment, we should
have a project. And once we have that
project, we need to do the last step,
which is going to be setting up our new
GitHub instance. So, I'm actually going
to go back to GitHub and get that
started. So, we're going to go back into
GitHub. I'm going to go back into my um
back into my settings. I'm going to go
down here into my developer settings.
I'm going to go into OOTH apps. We're
going to create yet another one. We're
going to call this um Superbase uh
tutorial live. We're going to set the
homepage URL to um we don't know what
that will be yet, but the callback URL.
We're going to jump back to our
Superbase uh console here. Jump back to
dashboard. Jump into Superbase File
tutorial. Jump into project settings.
And actually, we're going to jump into
authentication here. We're going to go
into providers.
We're going to go down here into email
and we're going to disable it because I
don't want email. We're going to save
that.
Um, we're going to go down here into
GitHub. We're going to go ahead and
enable it. We're going to copy this
callback URL. Jump back to GitHub. Paste
it in here. We're going to jump uh we're
going to jump over to Verscell. We
should have our new URL here so we view.
Yep, this is working correctly. Uh, open
this in full screen. I'm going to grab
this URL here. We're going to jump all
the way back to our uh GitHub here.
Paste that URL in. We're going to
register our application. I'm going to
copy my I'm going to copy my client
secret. We are going to uh d paste that
in here. And we're going to grab our
client secret here. Generate it. Copy.
We're going to paste it. We're going to
save it. I don't want to autofill that.
And just like that, we should now have a
GitHub provider enabled here. And with
all of that in place, hopefully we go
back to our live little GitHub site. I
hit login site. I go to sign in with
GitHub. I want to authorize this. Yes,
I'm going to go ahead and do that. Um,
oh, one more thing I forgot to do here.
We want to go back into our um want to
go back here to our tutorial app thing.
We want to grab our URL here. We want to
go back into our Superbase console. Um,
yeah, we'll go into our Superbase
console into authentication into uh
providers
uh actually into URL configuration. We
want to paste in our URL, get rid of the
slash, save it,
and now hopefully we can go back into
our project, log into the site, sign in
with GitHub, and now we are logged in
and we have our app. I'm going to go
ahead and fill in my name.
Update this. Updated. We're going to log
out. I'm going to go back into my
Subbase console into my table editor,
view my profiles, and it's working. So,
just like that, we have built a full
stack Spellkit Subbase production
application in 2024. I know that this
was kind of a crazy tutorial and we went
through a lot of stuff. Like I said,
link down below will be the full source
code for this that repo I just
published. you can go through and check
everything. Uh, if you guys have any
ideas on how to improve this and update
this, definitely leave them down below.
Would love to hear from you guys. And,
uh, yeah, I know this has been chaos,
but if you enjoyed, make sure you like
and subscribe. And thank you for
watching.